website: Update variables documentation & demos (#1334)
iTwin/iTwinUI: apps/website/src/pages/docs/variables.mdx

title: Variables
description: Use iTwinUI-variables to integrate design tokens into your application.
layout: ./_layout.astro
---

import ColorList from '~/components/variables/ColorList.astro';
import FontsDemo from '~/components/variables/FontsDemo.astro';
import SizesDemo from '~/components/variables/SizesDemo.astro';
import SizesInputDemo from '~/components/variables/SizesInputDemo.astro';
import OpacityDemo from '~/components/variables/OpacityDemo.astro';
import BorderRadiusDemo from '~/components/variables/BorderRadiusDemo.astro';
import ShadowsDemo from '~/components/variables/ShadowsDemo.astro';
import DurationDemo from '~/components/variables/DurationDemo.astro';

> <p>{frontmatter.description}</p>

Reviewer: Replace frontmatter paragraph and the following paragraph/code with changes from [`648fbde` (#1335)](https://github.com/iTwin/iTwinUI/pull/1335/commits/648fbdea0479bee993882ef4b71d6da36b439269).

In that PR, I had it condensed to this:

> iTwinUI offers an extensive set of handcrafted CSS variables. If you're using iTwinUI-react, these variables will be automatically included and imported into your application. If you want to use it standalone, you can manually `npm install @itwin/itwinui-variables`.

Author: Done.

We strongly encourage the use iTwinUI's CSS variables rather than hardcoding values. Many of the color values change depending on the theme or contrast settings. Because of this, we purposefully do not expose the variables' values on this site. However, if you need a particular variable's value, you can extrapolate it from [the raw CSS file](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@itwin/itwinui-variables/index.css).

> ## Border radius

Reviewer: what's the benefit of alphabetically sorting? to me, it makes more sense to sort in a logical order / by importance.

Author: We can take a guess as the order of importance, but alphabetical at least makes scanning the TOC easier.  We have the left side nav sorted alphabetically as well.

Reviewer 2: I agree with discussing it further internally.

## Variables

> We strongly encourage developers to use iTwinUI's CSS variables rather than hardcoding values. Many of our color values change depending on the theme or contrast settings. Because of this, we purposefully do not expose the variables' values on this site. However, if you need the variables values you can extrapolate those values from [the raw CSS file](https://unpkg.com/browse/@itwin/itwinui-variables@2.x.x/index.css).

Author: I linked to https://unpkg.com/browse/@itwin/itwinui-variables@2.x.x/index.css on purpose incase we were to introduce iTwinUI-Variables 3.x and we wanted to version our documentation site.  But since we haven't introduced versioning to the doc site yet, maybe I'm thinking too far ahead.

> We strongly encourage developers to use iTwinUI's CSS variables rather than hardcoding values. Many of our color values change depending on the theme or contrast settings. Because of this, we purposefully do not expose the variables' values on this site. However, if you need the variables values you can extrapolate those values from [the raw CSS file](https://unpkg.com/browse/@itwin/itwinui-variables@2.x.x/index.css).

Author: Linking to https://unpkg.com/@itwin/itwinui-variables/index.css now that this branch is targeting `dev`.

> We strongly encourage developers to use iTwinUI's CSS variables rather than hardcoding values. Many of our color values change depending on the theme or contrast settings. Because of this, we purposefully do not expose the variables' values on this site. However, if you need the variables values you can extrapolate those values from [the raw CSS file](https://unpkg.com/browse/@itwin/itwinui-variables@2.x.x/index.css).

Author: Ok, using this link instead.

> ### Color

Author: I have reduced all `H*` elements by 1 & removed "Installation" and "Variables".  Looks much cleaner now.

      'var(--iui-color-background-warning-hover)',
      'var(--iui-color-background-negative-hover)',
    ],
  ]}
/>

> If you want to use color to help convey some sort of status, but don't want the color to be as strong or if you want to use normal text / icon colors above this background color, you can use the muted status background color palette.

Reviewer 3: This sentence seemed confusing. I tried to reword the best I can, but if this isn't accurate, let me know

```suggestion
The muted status background color palette can be used to help convey some sort of status without using a strong color. It can also be used for normal text or icons above a main background color
```

- `border-foreground`: for input elements.
- `border-foreground-hover`: for input elements with a hover state.
- `border-disabled`: for elements with a disabled state.

<ColorList
  colors={[
    'var(--iui-color-border)',
    'var(--iui-color-border-subtle)',
    'var(--iui-color-border-foreground)',
    'var(--iui-color-border-foreground-hover)',
    'var(--iui-color-border-disabled)',
  ]}
/>

You can also use border status colors in combination with status background colors and muted status background colors.

<ColorList
  colors={[
    [
      'var(--iui-color-border-accent)',
      'var(--iui-color-border-informational)',
      'var(--iui-color-border-positive)',
      'var(--iui-color-border-warning)',
      'var(--iui-color-border-negative)',
    ],
  ]}
/>

### Text

Text colors have been carefully selected to ensure you meet legal accessibility requirements. All of these text colors ensure a passing score except when paired with status background colors and soft background colors.

- `text`: the default text color.
- `text-hover`: text using `text` with a hover state.
- `text-disabled`: the disabled text color.

> - `text-muted`: lighter colored text that is not as important as / supplemental to `text`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `text-muted`: lighter colored text that is supplemental to `text`.
```

  ]}
/>

The soft background colors can be used to categorize things that may not be associated with a status. These soft background colors do not meet accessibility requirements when paired with text or icons, so use sparingly.

<ColorList
  colors={[
    'var(--iui-color-background-skyblue)',
    'var(--iui-color-background-celery)',
    'var(--iui-color-background-froly)',
    'var(--iui-color-background-steelblue)',
    'var(--iui-color-background-sunglow)',
    'var(--iui-color-background-seabuckthorn)',
    'var(--iui-color-background-montecarlo)',
    'var(--iui-color-background-poloblue)',
    'var(--iui-color-background-bouquet)',
    'var(--iui-color-background-ash)',
    'var(--iui-color-background-oak)',
  ]}
/>

> If you need to use a color in combination with an [opacity](#opacity), we have provided `HSL` specific variables.

Reviewer: We could also remove the change from my PR and move it into yours.

> If you need to use a color in combination with an [opacity](#opacity), we have provided `HSL` specific variables.

Author: Added a new heading specifically for color + opacity pairings & mentioned accessibility requirements fall onto them.

    'var(--iui-color-icon-disabled)',
    'var(--iui-color-icon-muted)',
    'var(--iui-color-icon-muted-hover)',
  ]}
/>

Similarly, there are icon status colors.

<ColorList
  colors={[
    [
      'var(--iui-color-icon-accent)',
      'var(--iui-color-icon-informational)',
      'var(--iui-color-icon-positive)',
      'var(--iui-color-icon-warning)',
      'var(--iui-color-icon-negative)',
    ],
  ]}
/>

### Size

> iTwinUI's spacing scale follows t-shirt sizes as a naming convention. iTwinUI uses `REM` rather than `PX`, a relative sizing unit that adjusts based off the `font-size` declared on the `<html>` element.

Author: Good suggestions, addressed all bullets!

<FontsDemo weights />

## Opacity

The opacity scale decreases from 1 to 6, with `--iui-opacity-1` being fully opaque.

<OpacityDemo />

## Shadow

iTwinUI offers a few shadows that increase in elevation from 0 to 5. These variables are typically used in combination with the [surface component](surface).

<ShadowsDemo />

## Duration

> If you need to animate anything, use one of the supplied duration variables. The duration scale decreases from 0 to 3, with `--iui-duration-0` having no duration. For most hover or click interactions, we encourage using the fastest speed.

Author: Duration and opacity text updated.

<FontsDemo weights />

## Opacity

The opacity scale decreases from 1 to 6, with `--iui-opacity-1` being fully opaque.

<OpacityDemo />

## Shadow

iTwinUI offers a few shadows that increase in elevation from 0 to 5. These variables are typically used in combination with the [surface component](surface).

<ShadowsDemo />

## Duration

> If you need to animate anything, use one of the supplied duration variables. Please use these variables in combination with the [`prefers-reduced-motion` media feature](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-reduced-motion) for accessibility reasons. For most hover or click interactions we encourage using the fastest speed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you need to animate anything, use one of the supplied duration variables. Please use these variables in combination with the [`prefers-reduced-motion` media feature](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-reduced-motion) for accessibility reasons. For most hover or click interactions, we encourage using the fastest speed.
```

<OpacityDemo />

### Shadow

iTwinUI offers a few shadows that increase in elevation from 0 to 5. These variables are typically used in combination with the [surface component](surface).

<ShadowsDemo />

### Duration

If you need to animate anything, use one of the supplied duration variables. Please use these variables in combination with the [`prefers-reduced-motion` media feature](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-reduced-motion) for accessibility reasons. For most hover or click interactions we encourage using the fastest speed.

<DurationDemo />

## Resources

> <RelatedComponents

Reviewer: Not needed as it's mentioned in the first paragraph.

Author: Removed.
